Bootstrapper (object)
Persistence: In computer science, persistence describes dat that outlives the process that created it.
Persistent Data denotes information that is infrequently accessed and not likely to be modified.
Domain entities - All MVC frameworks start with the domain model as everything revolves around it.
ORM Framework (computer science):  Objects to Relational tables Mapping. Presents the tables, columns and rows of a relational database through regular C# objects.
    - LINQ can work with different sources of data, and one of these is Entity Framework.
View model: Not a part of the domain model. It is just a convenient class for passing data between the controller and the view.
API: Application Progamming Interface: This is a set of functions and procedures that allow the creation of applications that access the features or data of an operating system, application or other service.

a set of functions and procedures that allow the creation of applications which access the features or data of an operating system, application, or other service.

Request (MVC, Request/Response chain)
Routing (MVC, Request/Response chain):
Controller Factory (MVC, Request/Response chain): Responsible for creating instances of controllers to service requests.
Controller (MVC, Request/Response chain):
Action Invoker (MVC, Request/Response chain): Responsible for finding and invoking the action method in the controller class.
Action Method (MVC, Request/Response chain):
View (MVC): A mixture of C# and html that allows a mixture of dynamic and static content to be passed to the user interface.
  Dynamic Content: Generated at runtime and can be different for each request
    Inline code: For small, self contained pieces of logic like foreach  and if statements. Very common. (@code)
    HTML helper: For generating single HTML elements or small collections of them, typically based on view or model data (@Html.HelperMethod)
    Sections: For creating sections of content that will be rendered into the layout at specified locations (@section SectionName)
    Partial Views: For creating subsections of view markup between views. Can also contain inline code, HTML helpers and references to other partial views.
    Child actions: For creating  reusable UI controls or widgets that need to contain business logic. When you use a child action (an action method within a view), it invokes an action method, renders a view, and injects the result into the response stream.
  Static Content: Such as HTML, is created when you write your application and is the same for each request.

concrete (class, oop):
public (class, oop):
private (class, oop):
protected (class, oop):
namespace (oop, c#):
scope (oop, programming):
child/parent namespace:
namespace:

thread (computing): In computer science, a thread of execution is the smallest sequence of programmed instructions that can be managed independently by a scheduler, which is typically a part of the operating system.
